(upbeat music)
Alright, let's talk about images in Gatsby.
This is some of the special sauce that Gatsby has
because images make your website very slow.
And the steps that you need to take in order to make your
website fast with images are often too hard
for just a regular web developer.
So what Gatsby does is it makes the progressive loading
and the different resizing and compression
of your images much faster.
So let's talk real quickly about like
what, is wrong with images on the internet?
Sometimes they are too big, meaning like, I've got
this one right here and maybe it's,
it came off of my digital SLR and it's eight megs
and have to resize the whole thing.
Sometimes they are not compressed.
So the file size, maybe it's the right size,
but it could be 50% smaller because you can compress it with
an algorithm and you can't even see the human eye,
that's called lost lists and lossy compression
so lossless is it makes it as small as possible without
giving up any quality and lossy compression is
it makes it as small as possible,
but also does give up some of the quality.
What else it could be not the same width and height.
So that could be a problem where you're like,
you want to resize this thing to be a perfect square,
but you don't really necessarily have the right tools
to do that or you don't want to open them all up
in Photoshop or something like that.
There could be like a poor loading performance,
so you could load this thing in, but as it's downloading,
I'm personally on a really slow internet connection
right now, you just see nothing.
It's just a white box, right?
And then like not the right format.
So there are lots of different formats for images
you can PNGs and JPEGs,
we have web P, which is in a lot of browsers,
but not all of them.
So do you have to make like a JPEG and a web P version
of that image and I'm tired, even just talking about this,
images are too hard on the internet.
So, Gatsby will do is you can just tell Gatsby
the width and the height or the size or the format
or any of these pieces of information,
and it's going to deliver to you this,
let me just inspect one of these suckers here.
It's going to deliver to you what is called a Gatsby image
and it has all of that stuff in there for you,
and you know you the, you don't have to worry
about it, right?
So this is my picture of a pizza,
and inside of there, we've got, first of all,
it takes care of ratios, so, you know,
ratios are kind of hard in CSS.
Then it gives us this data image,
so this is what it's going to show while it's loading.
It's a 20 PX by 50 I showed you this already,
but let me show you one more time.
Look at the tiny little pizza, so that's not even an image
and then when I load the page,
you see how they're blurry for a quick second
and then they load in the pixelated part is,
I added that in CSS I'll show you that in a bit,
but it's showing the blurry version of the image
while it downloads the actual full version of the image.
So that's what this sucker is right here.
Then we have a picture element that's part of HTML,
and it tries first to serve you
up a, web P version.
Otherwise it will try to serve you up a JPEG,
and then it also will serve multiple versions of that image,
depending on like, this is a little media query right here,
depending on the size of, of the actual image.
So all kinds of heavy lifting,
it does for you under the hood,
and it nicely feeds them in
when they're finished loading in.
So that's why Gatsby image is really, cool.
Now, in order to use Gatsby image you need something
to actually process all of those images cause
you, the developer, you can throw in a JPEG
hot off your camera into this thing,
but you shouldn't load that on the website because of all
the reasons we just talked about.
So you need a either a service or a computer
that will manually process all of those versions
of the images, they're gonna make a base 64 version.
They're going to make a JPEG version,
and they'll make a couple versions of the JPEGs
that are small and large, and they'll make a web P version
and so even if you have one file,
you might end up with seven or eight different actual files
behind the scenes, and the browser will take care
of showing which one it wants.
Now, in order to process them,
there's sort of two ways you can do it.
The first one is you can source your images.
If you have your images in a directory
in your website, you can source them much like
we source our data from sanity,
and then you can pipe them
through Gats B sharp.
Gatsby plugin, sharpen and sharp is something
that will run on your computer,
or it's something that will run on like
your netlify, your build process, and it will resize
and generate all those images for you.
Now that can take a long time, I personally have,
I don't know, three or 400 images
on my personal Westboss.com
And a fresh build takes, around 20 minutes
or so in order to, to get that all of those images done.
Cause image processing is very expensive,
meaning it takes a lot of computer power.
Now there are ways around that
and the sort of the alternative to that is you can still use
cut the image, but you can use it with a service.
So there's lots of services out there where you can either
upload your image directly to them,
or you feed them your image,
and then it will then produce all of those for you on demand
as the, as the customer or as the user actually requests it.
So what are those services?
So sanity has a thing called the image pipeline,
that is what we will be using.
So sanity comes in with already with their image pipeline
and it's compatible with Gatsby image.
There's also Cloudinary, which is a really good one.
They have a pretty generous free tier.
ImageX is another good one.
I'm sure there's lots of different ones out there.
So this is sort of where you want to make your decision,
whether you want to do it all yourself and use
the compute power or use a service, which doesn't on demand
for you and sort of speeds up your build.
Lucky for us, it's all built into sanity
so we will be going the sanity route,
but just know that Gatsby image works the same way
with regardless of your service.
So let's go ahead and open up our pizzalist.js
and let's open up our website here and go to our
pizza menu and let's inspect that component.
What was it called a single pizza?
Here we go, open up our pizza,
let's see our image, asset fluid,
look at all the good stuff that's in here.
So they give you an aspect ratio.
They give you the base 64 version of that image
so if I were to copy that,
I'd take these quotes off, that didn't Oh,
they truncated it on the end.
They'd give you the different sizes that are here,
source or set, source that web P all the information
that we need in order for it to work.
Now, we don't have to take all these things
and put them together, We can use a custom image element
that ships with Gatsby and, and feed it this entire thing.
Now, there are two different types of images
that you can feed to Gatsby image.
There's fixed, and that's when you have
a fixed within a height.
And then there is fluid, and though that's mostly like,
you'll want, what you'll want, because it's responsive.
Meaning you can resize the image.
See how I'm resizing the sucker
and look at, let's see how the image,
you can see the whole pie there,
and here it's sort of crop.
And that allows me to have the same height of the other
pizza that it's in it's row, but as I resize
you can see that they resize themselves
and do everything for you.
So most situations I'm going to say you want fluid.
Another kind of cool thing is look,
these are not loaded yet.
Gatsby will only load those on demand
as you scroll them in to view.
And that's pretty cool because you're not using
unnecessary bandwidth, both on your server,
as well as the customer who's visiting your website.
All of that stuff adds up to really slick and fast website.
And like, quite honestly,
I was never gonna do all that work myself.
But if it's built into a plugin all day long, let's do it.
So let's go into our single pizza here.
We're going to import, IMG from Gatsby-image.
So the package is called Gatsby-image.
This is put out by Gatsy themselves.
You might be asking like, Wes, why didn't you just go ahead
and use your fancy image import trick.
And if you look here, it doesn't show up.
And that's because I think the actual export is named
Gatsby image, but I like to name it,
IMG and that's how you're going to see it used
primarily throughout the web.
And let's go down below this paragraph tag here
and we'll use our IMG tag so it's capital IMG.
That's how you know that it's a custom component
and not a HTML image tag.
And you are to want to say source, but it's not source
it's fluid is equal to curly brackets.
And then we give it access to that data so
pizza.image.asset.fluid.
I'll go to our website that we're working here,
look at this boom, boom gets loaded right in.
All of that hard work, just tucked away
in one really nice thing.
We can also go ahead and or we should, for sure we pass it,
the additional things that you're used to with an image
and in this case, we always want to pass an alt.
So that image is accessible indeed let's just take
the pizza, that name and pass it in there.
You might say you might be tempted to say like a picture
of the pizza.name
But it's assumed that it's a picture
when somebody uses a screen reader,
it will announce to them that it is a picture or an image
or something like that so you don't need to.
So we just pass the pizza.name as the attribute.
Good so that is the basics of Gatsby image,
but if you wanted a different size of that image,
we could go to where we query that data.
So let's go to a, was it pizzas.js? That's our page.
And you see here, we're recruiting the image,
we asked for the fluid where it's a max width of 400.
We could of course change that value,
or we could also get a fixed value.
You could hear, we could say fixed.
Yeah, we want a fixed value of what is it
width 200, height 200,
and then ... it'd be Gatsby sanity image,
fixed, not fluid, give that a save.
Now, if we go and look at the data that we have here,
we'll go to our components, Pizza, image.
It's not opening I got to refresh,
I go pizza, image, asset fixed.
There we go, now it will give us the actual fixed
pieces of information that we could then pass to here.
Serum would go say, fixed and fixed, give it a save.
You see, now that that image is a fixed size
and it's not responsive.
Like you would expect with the, the fluid version.
So let's dial that back, I'm going to leave the query
in for the fixed and the fluid,
just so that you can come back to this at any given time.
Or, it should also show you, let me show you real quick.
You can do something silly,
like a width of 600 and a height of 200,
and let's bring that back to fixed and you'll see
that it will chop the image for you, and then in the future,
when we do this with people,
I'm going to show you how to like,
make sure that the person's face is right in the center.
So we're not accidentally cutting them off
so bring that back to fluid.
They also have really good errors.
If you accidentally mix up fixed and fluid,
that's it for the Gatsby images.
Let's get into the next one.